# hello_camera
The camera dolly assignment from CPSC-486
The gouraud shader assignment from CPSC-486
Name: Victor G. Balcazar
Contact Info: victorbalcazar3@hotmail.com

Description: The purpose of this project is to make sure the student understands how to control a camera and perform vector and matrix operations.
Going into the project I was fairly confident I could knock it out in just a few hours. I was wrong. At first I figured I would make a function that dealt with the position of the camera and there were plenty templates to chose from, graciously provided by the professors code. One problem though. I still didn't really know what any of it meant. The class he had given last Monday came in handy real quick as I recognized that he was making an othonormal basis to work base his rotation matrix around. That made me feel a little more comfortable. But I still didn't really know how to get the direction of the stare so I opted for a simple solution to test the waters. I changed the z value of the eyePosition. From the front this worked relatively when, but the moment I turned the camera it went bonkers.
I then tried a translating matrix, I wasn't sure why it wasn't working, I had read the documentation and did as I was shown. It should have worked. After a few hours of pouring into forums and obtuse documentation(seriously people, can you maybe make it a little more reader friendly?) Eventually I saw someone transforming a vec4 with the translation matrix. That made the screen change, but not the was I wanted. I tried asking in the classroom forum and got some helpful advice, though somewhat vague at times. Later I stumbled upon a forum post explaining a videogame character getting closer to a ball. They showed how to get the direction, and then gave the formula to getting closer. It was the direction divided or multiplied by the percentage you wanted to get closer to the other point. The panning effect was just as involved for me but I never did quite get it. I tried translating the camera to the origin, then rotating around the up vector and translating it back, but it didn't work. Sorry to say That I did not manage to complete the assignment fully.
